aim-assist guide (#1227)
Bedrock-OSS/bedrock-wiki-vite: docs/documentation/aim-assist.md

---
title: Aim Assist
description: Documentation for Aim Assist
mentions:

>  - gUHFlGfg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - gUHFlGfg
```

---

Aim assist in Minecraft Bedrock Edition can be customized through behavior packs using two separate JSON files: an **aim assist preset** and an **aim assist categories** file. These work together to control what gets targeted and how.

:::warning

> Requires format version `1.21.50` or higher. also aim assist doesn't support first person camera

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requires format version `1.21.50` or higher. Additionally, aim assist doesn't support first person camera.
```

:::

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Aim Assist Categories

> The categories file defines the priority weights for blocks and entities. Higher weight = higher priority for the aim assist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The categories file defines the priority weights for blocks and entities. A higher weight means higher priority for the aim assist.
```

<CodeHeader>
BP/aim_assist/categories/your_category.json

> </CodeHeader>

Reviewer: Linter's orders
```suggestion
<CodeHeader>BP/aim_assist/categories/your_category.json</CodeHeader>
```

Use a more descriptive name than `your_category.json` as well.

```json
{
    "format_version": "1.21.50",
    "minecraft:aim_assist_categories": {
        "categories": [
            {

>                 "name": "yourpack:category_name",

Reviewer: Use something more descriptive than `yourpack:category_name`. It should start with `wiki:` as well.

                "priorities": {
                    "block_default": 30,
                    "entity_default": 30,
                    "blocks": {},
                    "entities": {
                        "minecraft:end_crystal": 30,
                        "minecraft:armor_stand": 40
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### Priority Fields

| Field            | Description                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `block_default`  | Weight applied to all blocks by default. can range from [0,100]     |
| `entity_default` | Weight applied to all entities by default. can range from [0, 100]  |
| `blocks`         | Override weight for specific blocks                                 |

> | `entities`       | Override weight for specific entities                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Field            | Description                                                        |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `block_default`  | Weight applied to all blocks by default. can range from [0, 100]   |
| `entity_default` | Weight applied to all entities by default. can range from [0, 100] |
| `blocks`         | Override weight for specific blocks                                |
| `entities`       | Override weight for specific entities                              |
```

Specific entries inside `blocks` or `entities` override their respective default values. Setting a specific entity to a lower value than `entity_default` makes it less prioritized than other entities.

> ### Example PVE Aim Assist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PVE Aim Assist Example
```

To make the aim assist heavily favor entities over blocks (useful for combat):

```json
"priorities": {

>     "block_default": 1, //only chooses blocks when it couldn't find the entity

Reviewer: Use present tense rather than past tense

```suggestion
    "block_default": 1, // only choose blocks when an entity can't be found
```

    "entity_default": 100,
    "blocks": {},
    "entities": {
        "minecraft:end_crystal": 30,
        "minecraft:armor_stand": 40
    }
}
```

## Aim Assist Preset

The preset file ties everything together — it controls which category is used by default, per item, and when the hand is empty.

> <CodeHeader>BP/aim_assist/presets/your_preset.json</CodeHeader>

Reviewer: Use a more descriptive name than `your_category.json`.

```json
{
    "format_version": "1.21.50",
    "minecraft:aim_assist_preset": {

>         "identifier": "yourpack:your_preset",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "identifier": "wiki:aim_assist_preset",
```

        "item_settings": {

>             "minecraft:bucket": "yourpack:category_name"

Reviewer: Use something more descriptive than `yourpack:category_name`. It should start with `wiki:` as well.

        },
        "default_item_settings": "minecraft:default",
        "hand_settings": "minecraft:empty_hand",
        "exclusion_list": [
            "minecraft:bedrock",
            "minecraft:arrow"
        ],
        "liquid_targeting_list": [
            "minecraft:bucket",
            "minecraft:oak_boat"

>         ]

Reviewer: Linter's orders
```suggestion
        "exclusion_list": ["minecraft:bedrock", "minecraft:arrow"],
        "liquid_targeting_list": ["minecraft:bucket", "minecraft:oak_boat"]
```

    }
}
```

### Preset Fields

| Field                   | Description |

> |-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Field                   | Description                                                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
```

| `identifier`            | Unique identifier for this preset                                        |
| `item_settings`         | Maps specific items to a specific aim assist category                    |
| `default_item_settings` | The aim assist category used by default when holding any item            |
| `hand_settings`         | The aim assist category used when the hand is empty                      |
| `exclusion_list`        | Items or blocks excluded from aim assist targeting                       |
| `liquid_targeting_list` | Items that enable liquid block targeting when held (e.g. buckets, boats) |

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Activating via Script API or Commands

> You can activate a custom Aim Assist preset on a player using the `/aimassist` command through scripts:

Reviewer: "Aim Assist" is not a proper noun here.
```suggestion
You can activate a custom aim assist preset on a player using the `/aimassist` command through scripts:
```

```js

> player.runCommand("aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle yourpack:your_preset");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
player.runCommand("aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle wiki:aim_assist_preset");
```

```
or in commands:

> ```txt

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

or in commands:

```txt
````

> /aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle yourpack:your_preset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle wiki:aim_assist_preset
```

```

> This lets you use script logic to control **when** and **on whom** the Aim Assist is active, while the JSON files handle what gets prioritized.

Reviewer: "Aim Assist" is not a proper noun here.
```suggestion
This lets you use script logic to control **when** and **on whom** the aim assist is active, while the JSON files handle what gets prioritized.
```

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Adding Aim Assist in your Camera Preset

You can directly activate your Aim Assist using your Camera Preset:

> ```json

Reviewer: "Aim Assist" and "Camera Preset" are not proper nouns here.

There should also be a space between the two lines.
````suggestion
You can directly activate your aim assist using your camera preset:

```json
````

{
    "format_version": "1.20.10",
    "minecraft:camera_preset": {

>         "identifier": "yourpack:your_camera_preset",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "identifier": "wiki:camera_preset",
```

        "inherit_from": "minecraft:free",
        "player_effects": true,
        "aim_assist": {

>             "preset": "yourpack:your_preset"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "preset": "wiki:aim_assist_preset"
```

        }
    }
}
```

> With this you'll automatically activate Aim Assist after switching to your Custom Camera Preset.

Reviewer: "Aim Assist" and "Custom Camera Preset" are not proper nouns here.

There should also be a space between the two lines.
````suggestion
```

With this you'll automatically activate aim assist after switching to your custom camera preset.
````

---
title: Aim Assist

> category: documentation

Reviewer: Having this documentation category here causes an error:

<img width="1591" height="373" alt="Image of error" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d096e65d-5358-4d98-9b4e-066588fbd8ae" />

```suggestion
```

description: Documentation for Aim Assist
mentions:

>  - Water(cleanpaper60581)

Reviewer: Who are you adding as a contributor here? This needs to be a GitHub username.

What you have here will link to https://github.com/Water(cleanpaper60581)

<img width="262" height="172" alt="Rendered contributors" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/586b3bb3-dde0-49df-8e66-8e68fb81ff85" />

---

# Aim Assist

> 

Reviewer: You have added a top level heading. This causes duplication. See the [contributing guide](https://wiki.bedrock.dev/contribute-style#headings), as this is covered there.

<img width="1311" height="412" alt="Top level heading" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/424d978d-2294-4c41-be73-8ca19fecf39f" />

```suggestion
```

Aim assist in Minecraft Bedrock Edition can be customized through behavior packs using two separate JSON files: an **aim assist preset** and an **aim assist categories** file. These work together to control what gets targeted and how.

Requires format version `1.21.50` or higher.

---

## Aim Assist Categories

The categories file defines the priority weights for blocks and entities. Higher weight = higher priority for the aim assist.

> **File location:** `behavior_pack/aim_assist/categories/your_category.json`

Reviewer: Consider using a [Folder view](https://wiki.bedrock.dev/contribute-style#folderview).

```json
{
    "format_version": "1.21.50",
    "minecraft:aim_assist_categories": {
        "categories": [
            {
                "name": "yourpack:category_name",
                "priorities": {
                    "block_default": 30,
                    "entity_default": 30,
                    "blocks": {},
                    "entities": {
                        "minecraft:end_crystal": 30,
                        "minecraft:armor_stand": 40
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

### Priority Fields

| Field | Description |
|---|---|
| `block_default` | Weight applied to all blocks by default. can range from [0,100] |
| `entity_default` | Weight applied to all entities by default. can range from [0, 100] |
| `blocks` | Override weight for specific blocks |

> | `entities` | Override weight for specific entities |

Reviewer: Automatic formatting from Prettier. This is covered by the [style guide](https://wiki.bedrock.dev/contribute-style#markdown-formatting).

```suggestion
| Field            | Description                                                        |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `block_default`  | Weight applied to all blocks by default. can range from [0,100]    |
| `entity_default` | Weight applied to all entities by default. can range from [0, 100] |
| `blocks`         | Override weight for specific blocks                                |
| `entities`       | Override weight for specific entities                              |
```

Specific entries inside `blocks` or `entities` override their respective default values. Setting a specific entity to a lower value than `entity_default` makes it less prioritized than other entities.

### Example: PVE Aim Assist

To make the aim assist heavily favor entities over blocks (useful for combat):

```json
"priorities": {
    "block_default": 25,
    "entity_default": 80,
    "blocks": {},
    "entities": {
        "minecraft:end_crystal": 30,
        "minecraft:armor_stand": 40
    }
}
```

---

## Aim Assist Preset

The preset file ties everything together — it controls which category is used by default, per item, and when the hand is empty.

> **File location:** `behavior_pack/aim_assist/presets/your_preset.json`

Reviewer: Consider using a [Folder view](https://wiki.bedrock.dev/contribute-style#folderview).

```json
{
    "format_version": "1.21.50",
    "minecraft:aim_assist_preset": {
        "identifier": "yourpack:your_preset",
        "item_settings": {
            "minecraft:bucket": "minecraft:bucket"
        },
        "default_item_settings": "minecraft:default",
        "hand_settings": "minecraft:empty_hand",
        "exclusion_list": [
            "minecraft:bedrock",
            "minecraft:arrow"
        ],
        "liquid_targeting_list": [
            "minecraft:bucket",
            "minecraft:oak_boat"
        ]
    }
}
```

### Preset Fields

| Field | Description |
|---|---|
| `identifier` | Unique identifier for this preset |
| `item_settings` | Maps specific items to a specific aim assist category |
| `default_item_settings` | The aim assist category used by default when holding any item |
| `hand_settings` | The aim assist category used when the hand is empty |

> | `exclusion_list` | Items or blocks excluded from aim assist targeting |

Reviewer: Automatic formatting from Prettier. This is covered by the [style guide](https://wiki.bedrock.dev/contribute-style#markdown-formatting).

```suggestion
| Field                   | Description                                                              |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `identifier`            | Unique identifier for this preset                                        |
| `item_settings`         | Maps specific items to a specific aim assist category                    |
| `default_item_settings` | The aim assist category used by default when holding any item            |
| `hand_settings`         | The aim assist category used when the hand is empty                      |
| `exclusion_list`        | Items or blocks excluded from aim assist targeting                       |
```

| `liquid_targeting_list` | Items that enable liquid block targeting when held (e.g. buckets, boats) |

---

## Activating via Script API or Commands

You can activate a custom aim assist preset on a player using the `/aimassist` command through scripts:

```js
player.runCommand("aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle yourpack:your_preset");
```
or in commands:
```txt
/aimassist set @s 60 10 16 angle yourpack:your_preset
```

This lets you use script logic to control **when** and **on whom** the aim assist is active, while the JSON files handle what gets prioritized.

### Adding Aim Assist in your Camera Preset

> You can directly active your Aim Assist using your Camera Preset

Reviewer: Do you mean "activate" here?

```json
{
	"format_version": "1.20.10",
	"minecraft:camera_preset": {
		"identifier": "yourpack:your_camera_preset",
		"inherit_from": "minecraft:free",
		"player_effects": true,
		"aim_assist": {
			"preset": "yourpack:your_preset"
		}

> 	}

Reviewer: Automatic formatting from Prettier. You used tabs here.

```suggestion
    "format_version": "1.20.10",
    "minecraft:camera_preset": {
        "identifier": "yourpack:your_camera_preset",
        "inherit_from": "minecraft:free",
        "player_effects": true,
        "aim_assist": {
            "preset": "yourpack:your_preset"
        }
    }
```

}
```

> With this you'll automatically active Aim Assist after switch to your Custom Camera Preset

Reviewer: Do you mean "activate" here?

:::warning

> aim assist doesn't work on first person camera

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aim assist doesn't work on first person camera
```
